
Speaking Task 1 Tips:
Say thesis statement by restating the question. Describe the question either you agreed or disagreed or each choice you have chosen. 
First reason. Support it with examples and more explanation.
Second reason. Support it with examples and more explanation.
Beginning of the speech is of more significance. Say the easier reason that you can support first and the unfamiliar reason next. If you are able to support the first reason you are going to talk about 25-30 secs until the second reason.
Do not rush in your words and speak emotionally. 
Do not use “I remember the time when blab la blab” even “for example”
Punctuation is of utmost importance. Pause between your sentences.  

Speaking Task 2,3,4 Tips:
Remember tips of each right before task begins.
Listen and jot down together. (Be like a genius) 
Take note much but speak less. ( circle important sections )
Don’t rush and speak coherently. 
Use Transition words rather than cheap words you usually use.


Speaking Task 2 common phrases:

According to the announcement, the university is going to adopt a new policy
According to the letter the university has been asked to 
The man/woman agrees with the idea up to a point
And about second point,...


Speaking Task 4 common phrases:
The lecturer discusses two changes brought about by...
	One change is that...
		Take ... for example, 
	Another result of ... is that...

The lecturer discusses two strategies that ...
	One strategy is to ...
	Another strategy is to...

.Going back to the earlier example

	General 
o	As far as I can tell, they’re not necessarily the same thing.
o	Among the mentioned (choices), I would personally go for …
o	The most significant advantage of this policy is … (saving money or environment)
o	However, we cannot turn a blind eye to the disadvantage of …
o	Although some may disagree, I believe …


	Family 
o	Family is the sole group who truly cares for us and, we can count on them whenever we run into difficulties. For example, on a rainy day, you can cadge money from your family and they might help you without reservation.
o	Our family members are the ones who know us the best and can advise us better than any other people. For example, when you wanna choose a major to study, it seems more rational to consult your family because they know your interests in a superior way. 

	Children 
o	Parents should not constrain their children from doing what they want. They should incent them without incensing them.
o	Were I a father, I would never interfere in my children’s lives and would let them do whatever they want at their own free will. My parents used to force me to be a doctor, which was utterly preposterous. 
o	Parents who give their children preferential treatment are sowing the seeds of future problems. 
o	Children who engage in competition earn critical social skills through interacting with others in addition to learning the value of hard work and developing self-confidence and self-esteem.
o	It will boost their ego.
o	It will help them learn how to be disciplined. This will gradually teach them how to take care of responsibilities later in life.
o	 it provides the opportunity to make friends with new people. Students can socialize and get to know people with different perspectives and cultures which can be a real eye-opener.
o	Joining such activities will boost their self-confidence and self-esteem. It will bring them out of their shell. 
o	Living in society is a give and take relationship. Children should fulfill their civic duty and role in society. They will learn to be wholly committed to their duties.
o	They will appreciate others’ efforts.


	Parents should not be allowed to watch children’s grades without their permissions 
o	Some parents might always keep an eye on their children's performance, which intensifies the student's tension. parents may blame them for their failure in a course without deep knowledge for reasons. They intensify the tension on students. Which aggravate the student's spirit and crush their motivation. 
o	It is immensely significant to respect individual’s privacy, including children. Privacy is tied to freedom. It helps us to protect our thoughts and even physical safety. Parents’ intervention might cause a lot of pressure on children. For example, When I was in primary school, my parents had to sign my transcripts and it made me faintly tense.


	Children should learn paint or draw
o	It gives the children a head start by helping them to be good with their hands. The more you paint the better you can convey what in your mind is on the paper. They can brush up on their skills. When I was a child I was always painting and thankfully now my handwriting is acceptably neat. 
o	Besides, without a doubt having fun is every child’s right. Painting is marvelously entertaining, it delights children. children can enjoy drawing and it makes them happy.

	Gifted children should be treated differently 
o	Some gifted children may develop highly inflated and unrealistic expectations for themselves. They might desire to be the best in perpetuity. And, any divergence from this path will be perceived as a failure and make them disappointed. Were I a father, I would never treat my children as overly special to let them be able to get along with others. 
o	On the other hand, gifted children have unique educational needs due to their intellectual difference and require special academic services. For example, children who are strong in math should have extracurricular classes.

	Study
o	Had I known about different subjects at an early age, I would have studied other majors like music which I fell in love with. 
o	It can help students study throughout the semester and store the information in their long-term memory. As a result, their lessons will not accumulate and they won’t need to cram before the exams.
o	Homework will help students diagnose their weaknesses and work on them. Also, teachers will provide them with optimal feedback, which will help students stay on the right track. 
o	… will help students keep track of class discussions and lessons more efficiently and learn the lessons in depth.
o	… arouse students’ curiosity.

	Homework for students
o	Students will keep track of class discussions better. They will work on a regular basis and avoid procrastination. They will gradually metamorphose to industrious people. 
o	In addition to consolidate the lessons, it helps students avoid cramming before the tests and you won’t be overwhelmed.
o	
	Study  in the morning
o	It’s easier to maintain focus in the morning. For some demanding courses, it’s enormously important to fully focus. I’m a morning person 


	 Schools 
o	Schools should provide congenial atmosphere not an oppressive one. The more delight intermingle with education, the more the students will learn in depth.
o	Student life obviously encompasses a vast range of activities and is of bewildering complexity, which stress them out and makes them tense.
o	Student life is replete with assignments, homework, seminars, conferences, etc. Psychologically speaking, stress-induced diseases are prevalent among students.
o	By joining such activities students can unwind and get the good vibes to study more efficaciously. 
o	Quality is of more importance than quantity. 


	 Online classes or actual classes 
o	Actual classes wil help students fortify their social skills 
o	Students will take part in classes more willingly and will participate in class discussions 

	 Expel students who cheat on exam 
o	It’s not a good idea to expel students who cheat in an exam. Expulsion and suspension should only be used as a last resort. Schools should consider other aspects beyond the scope of education.
o	Expulsion would have serious serious repercussions such as increase in unemployment. 
o	Students should be disciplined when they cheat in a test like fail and force to pass the course again or extra assignments and so forth. 

	 Coed dormitory 
o	Dormitory is a miniature society indeed where you eill learn how to get along with people other than your family members.
o	Students can get to know members of the opposite sex, and they will learn to get to grips with differences 

	 University require Students to buy their own laptops 
o	It is too improper for university to force students to buy their own laptops.
o	First, students might not be able to afford personal computers. Laptops are exceedingly expensive. At least, uni had better give students loan.
o	Ex: I myself didn’t have my own laptop when I was freshman and bought it much later. 
o	 On the other hand, some say students need to have their own laptops to be able to work or study at anytime whenever they can or they want. Furthermore it ensures privacy. You can have your files saved on your laptop and block access for others. 


	 Work on one field or several fields 
o	Nowadays multidisciplinary majors are in things. Most of the inventions are the results of using advantages if one field in other fields’ applications. 
o	People need to use each other’s specialties in groups, and it is not possible for a person to be knowledgeable enough in all fields. 

	Experienced teachers
o	Experienced teachers are familiar with the kinds of students in the classes and know how to handle disruptive pupils. Thus, they can improve efficiency and raise test scores in a more excellent manner. When I was in high schools, I used to hate chemistry, but we had an accomplished chemistry teacher who aroused my interest and piqued my curiosity. 
o	Additionally, experienced teachers can help novices. Inexperienced teachers can heed their advice to be capable of demystifying matters better and be knowledgeable enough in teaching and education. 


	Internship
o	Students can gain experience doing an internship. Furthermore, it could lead to an opportunity to get an entry-level job at the same company. Although you might start with minimum wage, if you do excellent work and be a good team player. You could get a promotion or get a raise, hopefully both. A friend of mine got an internship in a company in 2015 and now he works in the same company and continues to prosper.

	Part-time job before college
o	It’d be better for students to do some casual work. 
o	First, they can make a living, they can save up money for college expenses like buying textbooks, stationery, tuition fee, and stuff. 
o	Secondly, it will give them a head start to fortify their soft skills like understanding the meaning of responsibility in addition to leaving the value of hard work and developing their self-esteem and self-confidence. 

	Job
o	The most significant factor to consider before choosing your major is your Interest. It doesn’t matter how hard it is. If you wanna climb the ladder of success, you should do what you love, thus you will have passion. And passion provokes effort, and effort is the only way to success. 
o	On the other hand, don’t disregard other factors like salary and job opportunities, as they will affect your future profoundly. We’re living in a world where money talks, you should earn enough money to stay solvent. You should set aside enough money to persevere in the face of adversity and survive the vicissitudes of life. 
o	Look for a job that keeps you motivated by its nature, not solely the paycheck. Because that wears off real fast.
o	The ability to look back at your life with satisfaction is more valuable than any number of digits in the bank. 
o	According to a recent job-satisfaction survey, accountants are the most unhappy. But as far as careers go, accounting is considered one of the best.


	Education or work experience
o	Both education and work experience are decisive factors.
o	On the one hand, with education, you will be well prepared and will get required knowledge and other prerequisites for the job. I myself worked at a company as a content provider as a sideline while finishing my masters. My responsibilities were not in the line of my education, but I saw my colleagues who had studied in pertinent areas worked much better than me.
o	On the other hand, having some work experience, one can earn crucial skills like communicating with experts and know how to tackle the tasks and clear hurdles that the job may entail.
o	It is more economical for a company to hire experienced people since university education does not necessarily teach people all they need to start a career. 
o	Having some work experience can assist a person in developing essential skills such as communicating with experts, dealing with tasks and clear the hurdles that the job may entail. They would be be able to establish good rapport with their workmates and clients.


	Work as librarian, teacher, doctor, …
o	A person spends at least 8 hours a day in his work place.
o	Libraries usually have tranquil environment compared to shops that are bustling. 
o	There’s a good chance to have good workmates. Librarians are usually well-read and cultured people. Libraries have a cordial atmosphere and you will have a nice time. I genuinely believe that having good colleagues is the most important quality of the work environment. 
o	
o	Children are the future citizens of a country, one can derive a sense of satisfaction by helping them and contribute to the future progress of a country. 

	Do we have to make enemies to be successful
o	It’s too improper to say you must make enemies if you wanna succeed. Although successful people may have some enemies, there are whole host of successful people who are very self-effaced, gracious, and solicitous. So they have never tried to turn others against themselves. It depends to a great extent on one’s temperament, and how one decides to treat the others around them. 

	relationship
o	honesty is of great importance and significantly cements the relationship between friends . Honest friends will never lead you astray. They will never misguide you. Namely, at school, an honest friend would never tell you study trivial matters.
o	Honest friends will never talk behind your back. They will say you your weaknesses and you would diagnose them and work on them to be a better person, which is invaluable. I have some friends and we have a genuine friendship. This is an astonishing experience. 
o	forge a relationship
o	convivial atmosphere
o	cordial atmosphere
o	honest friends will never lead you astray. 
o	As far as happiness is concerned, it’s all about relationships, I think. You know, you need strong social networks. There’s a lot of research that shows people who are lonely aren’t just happy, but their health is affected, too. 
o	Money is a factor, obviously. But seriously, it’s not that important.
o	I’m not tempted by the money.

	Music
o	Music is a crucial element of our lives.
o	Listening to music is a great way to get rid of gnawing anxiety and get the good vibes to stay focused and work more efficaciously. Music delights students. It floods your brain with endorphins and oxytocin which in turn boosts your mood. 
o	Music will revitalize and energize students and will help them to maintain focus for their assignments. 



	Health
o	Many health problems appear as a result of poor diet and nutrition. 


	NEWS & Politics
o	Politics is enormously important, it profoundly impacts you and everyone around you like the amount of tax you pay for buying things.
o	Secondly, politics is marvelously entertaining. When you go out with your friends, you can talk for hours and get to know divergent perspectives.
o	Thanks to modern technology, … has become easer. This is because people can effortlessly use their electronic devices and have access to a wealth of information. Today, people have the Internet at their fingertips, the information is one click away. 
o	
o	News helps us to develop realistic viewpoints about life and world.
o	Being aware of latest news is a great way to interact with others.

	Paper books or digital ones
o	People don’t show interest in reading books today because of other sources of information available. 

	Environment
o	 Use reusable bags:
o	 It will reduce the use of plastic. The more plastic we use, the more dangers will occur in our environment, and the higher the risk of suffering from the negative effects of them. We have to prevent build up in landfill. 
Ex: look at the oceans that are fouled almost beyond recovery. 
o	 Additionally, the governments can use the revenue from environmentally related taxes to provide incentives for green activities like the campaigns that aim to raise awareness of the environment or set up recycling factories.

	Used stuff
o	It’s not a good idea to collect used stuff. Unless they have a sentimental value or are being used on a regular basis. Otherwise, they will just clutter up your room. … is a less is more kind of person she throw things away easily or at best, donate them.
o	It’d be better to recycle scraps. That way, you can save up money as well as being environmentally friendly person. I myself have recently used a plastic shampoo container as a phone holder. 



	Celebrities
o	Athletes lives can be truly inspiring, as they might encounter many obstacles and strove to triumph over all.
o	Do humanitarian activities and to help the homeless, orphaned or disaster-hit people. 

	Share room or not
o	There are pros and cons to either route.
o	first, sharing room/house with others is cost-effective. It is more economical because everybody shares bill payment or rent. It will cost a fortune to rent an exclusive house and As a student you might not be able it. 
o	secondly, living with others will boost your self-esteem and self-confidence. 


	Making mistakes
o	Making mistakes helps one become better problem solver and critical thinker. 

	Solitude or crowd
o	Solitude significantly increases productivity. I perform immensely better when I’m alone, I can stay focused on my work and won’t be distracted.
o	Secondly, the more privacy you have, the more enjoyment you will get. You can enjoy your life to the full like listening to your favorite music without headphones.
o	It will also enable you to move toward complete independence.  

	Travel alone or with others
o	You can explore the unknown places without restrictions and establish contact with local people and learn about different cultures. 

	Living in City
o	In most of the cities, there are different activities for people of all different kinds of interest to stop them from getting bored, such as restaurants, museums, parks and much more.
o	The noise level in major cities is higher than in the suburbs. The teeming streets of the city and traffic contribute to the noise as well as trains, planes, public events, etc. I presume my character to be introverted. An introvert would rather be in a quiet environment.
o	Urban areas are more dangerous than smaller towns. The more the people live in a place, the more crimes happen there.
o	In city you will meet new people everywhere you move. New people who have had very different life experience that yours and this can give you new perspectives. 
o	Despite the high costs of living in the city, there are many more job opportunities with high salaries in cities because of big company offices like google, Facebook, amazon, etc.

	Cooking at home
o	There are benefits to cooking at home, you can save money compared to ordering from restaurant or using TV-dinners as well as using healthier ingredients and setting portions to a reasonable size. 
o	
o	In most of the cities, there are different activities for people of all different kinds of interest to stop them from being bored, such as restaurants, museums, parks and much more.
o	The noise level is higher in urban areas due to movement of whole host of people. The taming streets, trains, planes and stuff which contribute to a lot of noise. I presume my character to be introverted. An introvert would rather be in a quiet environment.
o	Urban areas are more dangerous than smaller towns. The more the people live in a place, the more crimes happen there.
o	


o	Athletes lives can be truly inspiring, as they might encounter many obstacles and strove to triumph over all.
o	Do humanitarian activities and to help the homeless, orphaned or disaster-hit people. 


	Regular exercise 
o	In this day and age, hustle and bustle of modern life lead us to a hectic lifestyle. We are preoccupied with our jobs. Some of us are overburden with their jobs. They work from dawn till dusk. So it’s fairly difficult to open up your schedule for exercising. You know?
o	On the other hand, it’d be better to exercise on a regular basis. Regular exercise helps you get rid of many health problems as well as being in shape. It will promote better sleep. You will fall asleep faster and deepen your sleep. Besides it can increase your life expectancy and boost your mood through being healthy and not having diseases. 


	Indoor activity or outdoor activity
o	There are pros and cons to either routes. 
o	On the one hand with outdoor activities people will catch some rays, which helps them ward off depression and relieve stress. I myself usually enjoy going out to the beach and sunbathe.
o	On the other hand, some people are introverted and tend to stay in solitude. Introverts would rather exercise alone while listening to their favorite song. 

	Government
o	Governments can curb the sale of unhealthy food w/o restricting people’s right to choose them. 

	Planning 
o	Planning before doing things will minimizes uncertainty which contribute significantly to relieving stress.
o	Planning facilitates controlling. It provides pre-determined goals and standard of performance.
o	By scheduling you will have a big picture on what you should do. There would be pre-defined goals and instructions to achieve. 
 
	Spur of the moment decision or planning before
o	In the majority of cases, you should mull over important things before doing anything. If you make decisions in haste, you might be full of remorse. For example, some years back I was always  In some instances, if you make a mistake, you might be forced to start from scratch and that takes a long time. 
o	In some situations you need to be able to make timely decisions in the nick of time. You should think fast and take a prompt action. For example, I once inadvertently pushed the accelerator instead of the brake in a panic and plowed into the car in front. 




	News
o	News is of great importance. 


	Cosmetic surgery 
o	It’s chancy. It’s not fully guaranteed that you’ll meet your expectations, so you might be full of remorse. 
Ex: I heard a lot about people who brought lawsuit against cosmetic surgeons. 
o	You might be obsessed by your appearance and desire to do it again and again.
Ex: For example one of my cousins once wanted to look like Barbie by doing plastic surgeries tens of times.  



	Happiness
o	We’re brought up to believe that happiness means having lots of money – a big house and everything.
o	You can’t define happiness in terms of what you own.
o	No possession in the world can make you truly happy.
o	When it comes to being truly happy, it’s about doing things that have meaning. You can’t just sit around, waiting to be happy. 
o	As far as happiness is concerned, it’s all about relationships, I think. You know, you need strong social networks. There’s a lot of research that shows people who are lonely aren’t just happy, but their health is affected, too. 
o	Happier people tend to be more productive, leading to greater economic wealth. Moreover, they are often healthier, resulting in lower spending on health care.
o	Ideas for producing happier citizens might include:
	reducing unemployment-a major cause of unhappiness-
	improving parental skills to create happier families
	and finding ways to stimulate kindness toward others, which is known to make both givers and receivers happier.
o	The staple ingredient for a happy life is love.
o	Happy people tend to be good citizens and contribute more to their communities. 


	Consult older people
o	Although some say older people have more life experience and can counsel young generations better, it’s not something that can always be applied. They grew up in utterly different age and they usually judge things today by their standards back then. So their solutions might be obsolete. For example, you wanna find a job, old people may not be familiar with those rewarding freelance jobs that exist today. 
o	Secondly, in this fast-paced world it seems more rational to consult your peers because they grew up in the same period and can suggest modern ways to solve the problems that work better. Besides. They can understand you in a superior way.



	Famous people privacy or not
o	It is immensely significant to respect individual’s privacy, including celebrities. Privacy is tied to freedom. It helps us to protect our thoughts and even physical safety. Media scrutiny and celebrity gossips have ruined a whole host of famous people’s lives and lead them into trouble. For instance you can find many star couples divorced under the pressure made by society.
o	In addition, some celebrities are role model for teenagers and are an influence on them. Knowing their bad habitat, the youngsters will copy them and will be corrupted. Smoking is an exemplar that suffice to make the point. 


	Buy new products or wait for reviews
o	By reading the reviews you won’t be tricked by ads. No seller will tell you the cons of their product. 
o	Some new products might well have defects that producers will fix them in later versions or publish an errata.


	Museums
o	Museums provide an effective way of learning. A single visit to a museum can expose the visitors to in-depth information on a subject.
o	You can spend as much or as little time as you like.



	Rich people should help poor ones
o	Affluent people should help poor ones in order to make the society a better, more humane place.
o	If destitution is rife in a society, the crime rate will rise alarmingl, which affect all people’s lives including the rich ones. 
o	Help philanthropic organizations and do humanitarian activities and try to help the homeless, orphans, or disaster victims. 



	Writing or speaking
o	Writing must be self contained. There is no body language or vocal emphasis as everything must be in words. 
o	In writing there is the ability to revise and edit dozens of times.
o	Speaking is harder than writing because it is performance. You should watch your tone of voice .
o	While speaking you would be able to convey what in your mind is in a more excellent way.


