Tips:
•	Planning is of utmost/crucial importance
•	27-23-16-8-4
•	agree/disagree, reasons, words
Writing Book tips
	Topic sentence should not be fact.
	supporting sentences could be facts and examples.
	supporting sentences: major & minor
	concluding sentence is rephrased of topic sentence or summary of major sntc
	
There should be no irrelevant sentence. 
Concluding sentences transitions: 
All in all, In short, In conclusion, In summary
conclusion should be reviewing two reasons. 
Task2 - Independent
Intro:
In modern era,
Throughout history, human beings have perpetually been seeking …
Since the dawn of civilization,
For most of human history,
In the preceding decades … 


Whether ... or not is a matter of opinion; some people are of the opinion that ... 
Opinions are divided as to whether the role … plays is of more significance or that of …
The question which has been raised since the advent of … is that what constitutes …
A vexed question amongst the myriad of questions which arise here is that …
… has perpetually been a bone of contention. 
But whose relative importance is still debatable /is open to debate/ is a matter of debate. 
But some people believe otherwise. 

3 options: Although … and … are important, my impression is that … is of utmost importance/of essence. 
I am not, nor have I ever been an opponent of .../ a proponent of ...
I am of the opinion that both of the mentioned viewpoints have their own merits and drawbacks
I don’t subscribe to the theory that …
My impression is that …
In my opinion … 
Despite the fact that … cannot be disregarded/cannot be considered insignificant , it is my firm conviction that …
Others, on the other hand, take a radically different point of view and allege that …


There are numerous reasons, two of which I will explain.
There are numerous reasons, among which two stand out.
In what follows, I will elaborate on my point of view.
In following paragraphs, my viewpoint will be elucidated.
In what follows, I will boil this down to a couple of main reasons.
The following explanations will further elaborate on this perspective.




First Body:
First, and most obvious, 
First and foremost, 
To begin with,
First of all, 
In short, 

This exemplar will suffice to illustrate the point that ...
A case in point is ... 

Second Body:
Another equally important factor to take into consideration is …
Another worthwhile reason to be mentioned here is (the fact that)… 
On the other hand, 
Examples of this abound in the world. 

Conclusion:
In conclusion,
To summarize,
To wrap it up,
To bring everything into conclusion, 
It is too difficult to pinpoint whether the role … plays is of more significance or that of …
taking all the aforementioned reasons into consideration, we can conclude that 
all the aforementioned reasons lead us to the conclusion that
all the above enumerated reasons converge to the point that ..
Considering the aforementioned reasons, we can conclude that …
It is highly anticipated that
Whether … or not, need further considerations.
It is suggested that a through and comprehensive survey be conducted carried out to appraise the efficacy/efficiency/effectiveness of this policy.
It is suggested that an extensive body of research be conducted carried out to ascertain exactly what would happen if ... was ... . 
Consequently, unpleasantly surprising is the fact that … 
Other factors are also at work in the …
Based on the aforementioned reasons, it can be surmised that … has deleterious/detrimental effects on …. 
Obviously, … constitutes a serious threat to the future. Therefore, a prompt action must be taken, otherwise, a terrible fate awaits us.
Otherwise, a spirit of hopelessness may pervade the society. 
It would be palpably unwise to draw firm conclusions from the results of a few researches. 
Should the government do .... ....
Once again, it must be stressed that ...


General:
Because -> for
Children’s emotional development depends to a great extent on their earliest relationships, which is why the bond between children and their parents or caregivers is of great importance. 
Education, or the lack thereof, plays a major role in every society. 
Not only do the students benefit from it, but so do the professors. 
It is human nature to …, that is how our brain works. 
enormously arduous/mammoth/formidable/daunting/unenviable task
heavy workload/ work overtime 
tedious/humdrum/mundane/monotonous work/job/task
do a menial job to earn a living
hard/wearing/enervating/boring/grueling/tiring/fatiguing homework/assgmnt
increase/augment/escalate/enlarge/boost/develop
to survive the vicissitudes of life
to persevere in the face of adversity 
incredibly/outstandingly/extraordinarily/astonishingly/
... pales into insignificance when compared with ...
The whole world experienced a phenomenal growth in population, and there are grave environmental warnings, which we ignore at our peril. 
It is no secret that/It is patently obvious/ clearly/ unquestionably/ undeniably/ without doubt/ manifestly/ palpably/unmistakably .... 
The team would make headway toward ...
The problem of … is not peculiar to …
. Subjects , eventually, filled in a questionnaire including questions about … 
. Respondents were surveyed to determine ... 
An extensive body of research has revealed that …
As far as … concerned, ...

To what extent …
… extent to which …

…; however(.However), one cannot play down the significance/importance of …
It is far from straightforward to pinpoint exactly what/how/why … (It is too difficult to pinpoint the cause of )
… may impinge on/upon …
crush their enthusiasm 

More important than …, is …
pivotal reason
… is of paramount concern (to …) …
… must be given precedence. 
… is a chief concern.
Of paramount concern is …

… with scant regard for …
Until recently, there hadn’t been a whole lot of attention paid to …
… is usually more … the more … the …
Also important is …, …(define the term)
Of importance is the fact that ...
Examples of this abound in the world. 
. But prior to that, …
The main essence of media should be to heighten the public awareness. 
“…,” or so Thomas Edison, one of the world’s most famous inventors, is quoted as saying.  
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave, as the old saying goes.
Governments had better impose stringent restrictions on … companies 
Governments had better use revenues from environmentally related taxes to provide incentives for green activities or to establish recycling companies.
It takes an inordinate amount of time to ....
Some celebrities are not averse to getting pecuniary advantages by deception. To rephrase, some of them are not bona fide and are prone to trick people to get money. They might have political affiliation and ….
Had I known about ...., I would have been ...
it is monumental for every individual to be
It is axiomatic that …
The more … the more …. Such a relationship can be discerned in a recent research that shows …
To exemplify, …
In this regard,
For instance, …, once a luxury for privileged few, is now well within the reach of many more people.
In retrospect, …

Task 1 – Integrated
Tips
•	First, read the reading carefully.
•	Write what you’ve got from reading and listening.
•	Write down the gender of lecturer ;)
•	Don’t think a lot about templates, rush it.
•	First, Moreover, Finally
•	Useful grammars for this task(4):
                  might/could have p.p.| might/could be| had to| must have p.p. 
•	Think grammatically to use advanced structures.
•	Do not forget to conclude in every paragraph. 

Intro
The reading passage and the lecture mainly discuss ... and its attendant/and its causes  .... In this regard, the article states that …. With this in mind, the author cites/sets out three supportive/dissenting reasons in order to elucidates it. 
The problems ensued from ...

Problem/Solution
The reading passage and the lecture mainly discuss acute problems associated with … (Problem)

The author states that some acute problems have arisen regarding/have arisen ensued from … .(Problem)
The reading states that some acute problems have been brought about by … (Problem)

The lecturer, on the other hand, suggests some possible/viable solutions.(Solution)
Support
The lecturer agrees with the proposed claim/idea and verifies the view with examples.
The lecturer find the ideas brought up by the author credible.
The lecturer agrees in principle, but he/she finds the reasons brought up by the 
While acknowledging the fact that ..., the lecturer asserts that ...

Refute
In this regard, the reading passage presents some evidence which indicates that …
The author points to a research addressing the …
The author presents different factors that could have worked in concert to account for …

The lecturer, however, finds the evidence brought up by the critics wholly inadmissible and allege that these ideas are inconsistent with the truth.  
The lecturer, however, finds the ideas brought up by the critics wholly implausible and categorically refutes them all. 
The lecturer, however, finds the ideas brought up by the critics wholly implausible and categorically repudiates them in every respect. 
The lecturer, however, rules out the conjectures brought up by the author and asserts that the ideas are not backed by any scientific evidence. 
The lecturer, however, discounts the possibility of ... and asserts that there is only scanty evidence of ... 

First
Problem/Solution
The first serious problem mentioned by the author is …. (Problem)
To tackle this issue/ To combat this crucial problem, the professor states that….(Solution)
Support
First, the passage says that … The lecturer, in addition, supports/reinforces/corroborates the claim by adding that … 

---------------------------
First, the reading brings up the idea that …
In contrast, the lecturer holds the idea that … renders … impossible. 

First, the author puts forth that sth …
The lecturer, conversely, finds the claim unfounded/groundless  .... He/she further added that …
which confounds the idea that ....
This directly refutes the reading passage which states that

Second
Problem/Solution
Moreover, the reading highlights…….as another concern.(Problem)
As a feasible/viable solution, the speaker asserts that … should be taken into account(sol)
Support
Moreover, the passage claims that … The lecturer validates the idea emphasizing that …

----------------------------------------------------------
Moreover, the reading highlights the idea that …
Conversely, the lecturer underlines the fact that 

Moreover, the author mentioned …, an idea which the lecturer excludes as a reason for …. She/he further asserts that … 

Again this contradicts what is stated in the reading which stated that

Third
Problem/Solution
The final challenge mentioned by the writer is….(Problem)
On the other side, the speaker proposes that … (Solution)
Support
Finally, the passage says that …. The lecturer supports this by holding the idea that …

----------------------------------------------------------
Finally, the author argues that …
On the other hand, the lecturer dismisses this idea by stressing the fact that

Finally, both the reading passage and the lecture discuss …. While the author maintains that …, the lecturer opposes to this notion. He/she asserts that …

, a statement that seems to be at odds with (author’s claim)(…).

General

set on fire/ablaze/alight / cause sth to burst into flames
At the height 
The author exemplifies … in order to vindicate this theory. 
Some (500)(50%)(100$)
Apart from this, he/she mentioned that …
Their population have been severely swelled/depleted.
The reading passage and the lecturer mainly discuss hitherto unknown structures.
Space-age/state-of-the-art/futuristic/modern technology
Researchers found telltale signs of ..../… is indicative of …
… bear all the hallmarks of …
The lecturer ... doing … indiscriminately will have devastating impacts and will ravage … habitat.
The features that typify ancient birds 
The lecturer, on the contrary, asserts that … is more akin to … than …. 
It requires prodigious amounts of energy to ...
Such high is the ...



 


believes
claims
thinks
points to	states
says
points out
mentions
posits
puts forth	contends
asserts
insists
maintains
proposes
suggests	Notes
Oppose
Challenge 	argues
alleges

Support: 
Corroborate, confirm, verify, substantiate author’s claims, back up, As evidenced by, acknowledges, 

Refutes:
 rejects, repudiates, dismisses, contradicts, gainsay the author(‘s claims), negates author’s claim, discounts the possibility of 

solution: 
propose, suggest,  propound, 

Claim = statement = assertion = contention




Therefore
Hence
Thus
As a consequence
For this reason
This means that 
As a result
So
Therefore
Consequently
Thereby
which in turn
 
For example, a steel plant was built near my town. Owing to incorrect location, this factory is exposed to winds towards the city and all its pollutants enter the city, which has caused dissatisfaction among residents. People even assembled in front of municipality building and protested, but due to the large number of unemployed workers, the government failed to tackle the problem, and the factory resumed operation. 
	 Teamwork
The importance of teamwork is essential in today’s multidisciplinary world.
In this day and age, most of the projects/jobs involve interacting with others that are not even in the same line of profession. The need for effective teamwork is critical for any business.
Teamwork enables the members to split an enormously mammoth task to simpler ones -> every person develop specialized skills, therefore there would be the best person for each task that can accomplish it in a more excellent way. -> lead to better productivity, more efficacy, reduced costs, greater profitability, and many other benefits. 
Teammates observe and depend on the quality of each other’s work. When one team member’s performance declines, others have knowledge and motivation to help them improve. -> smoother and looser structure, convivial and cordial atmosphere -> 
Approach your colleague with friendly questions, rather than accusations.
They might be ostracized. 
In a team, all members must work towards the main goals of the team
Take my personal experience as example, I was in a robotics group preparing for an international competition. Our group consisted of 6 people, each with his own task. The rivalry between teams was fierce and we had to work diligently to meet the deadline. One of the members of the group, who was in charge of documenting the group's activities, always objected, and this affects the whole group adversely. Such terrible was the situation that despite winning that year's tournament, the members refused to cooperate again for next years.

I remember once working for a content providing company. My job was to produce technical content about new cars. One of my co-workers always objected, and we were always changing schedules, and that slowed things down a lot and we fell behind the market.
If a member of the group moves in the opposite direction, it slows down the process.

BrainStorm
•	Which kind of professors will you choose when selecting the courses?
1. Some professors who are voted to be the most popular one
2. Some professors who are rewarded of outstanding research
o	Uni offer diversity of teachers and profs.
o	Research; the more research the more knowledge; you will palpably learn more; Experienced teachers are capable of demystifying the matters in a more excellent way,  The professor shares his research experiences with the students; Ex: prof. thrun-who won the Darpa urban challenge in 2005; minute details of the project
o	More institutions will commission him to do other researches; know you -> opportunity to work for him; may lead to get a job.  My roommate. A prof who published a paper in Nature; he was working on different projects simultaneously. He got a rewarding job in petroleum ministry with high salary.
•	It is important to have rules about the types of clothes that people wear in their
workplace and at school.
o	No; improper to force people what to wear; wear whatever they want to feel comfortable; from pedagogically standpoint increase productivity; school uniform; inconvenient I couldn’t understand well in class
o	Feel free; differect tastes; based on their temperament; I wear fashion but casual ; look approachable; don’t spent a lot of time in front of the mirror
•	Some people think it is the best approach for students to learn if school start the day
at an early time in the morning. But someone think the school should start the day at
late time.
Which one do you prefer? 
One of the most talked about things related to studying is when exactly is the best time to hit the books? While this is most certainly affected by lifestyle and preferences, they are some pretty good reasons why as a college student you should study in the mornings. 
o	Morning; after a tiring day it is hard to retain what you studied; eventful day, read the matters more than one; the later you study, the more tired your brain is; the less you understand; in morning you had the chance to clear your mind and is easy to maintain focus;  Ex: I am a morning person, 
o	As imp as brain condition is you physical condition, Mornings are great because you are at the most energetic level you'll be for the rest of the day. The more energetic you are, the more you are able to concentrate. One night I was studying I was sleepy next day I start reading the rest of the book I read about 10 pages and sud
•	Which one of the following is the best approach to reduce living expense?
A. share the rent with roommate
B. do not buy the latest technology products like cellphone frequently
C. cook food at home.
o	House costs are exceedingly high. Difficult for people to afford rentals. Share house with others is a cost-effective decision
o	It is not impossible to live w/o having latest tech products, so we do not usually spend money on them. There are local restaurants that sell economical food or you can use TV-dinner. I lived in dorm and I ate out most of the time, whereas I was student and did not have much money.
•	Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Students do reading by their own personality is as important as, or more important
than reading assigned by teachers.
o	–
o	–
•	People should buy the products made in their own country.
o	Economies are failing
o	Help national companies to grow, produce finer products. It obviates the need for importing goods. Raise GNP and export the commodities, develop international trade . People can dramatically increase their foreign exchange earnings by buying domestic products
o	People can create many jobs by buying products in their own country. Unemployment rate is high. Young people need job.
•	When working on a project, it’s better for classmates or colleagues to communicate
face to face than sending emails
o	Convey better -> obviates the risk of misunderstanding, assemble together, deliberation make collective decisions -> Ex: work on the same tasks
o	If only one member does not have access to net -> project will be stopped, lead to project postponement -> meet the deadlines -> fall behind on their works and lose the market. 
o	Email/video conference obviates the need to collocate members and reduces ambiguity 	in commander’s intention. 
•	It's better to complete a project and then start another one than to do several things at
the same time.
o	Focus better
o	Come up with new idea, splendid inventions …
•	Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Nowadays it is not important for people to have regularly family meals together
o	Advancement in tech 
o	Hustle and bustle of modern life
•	Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
The more money a person has, the more he or she should give away to the charities
o	It is the duty of every member of society to think of one another. Make the society a better more humane place. 
o	“Human beings are all members of one frame,
since all from the same essence came,
when time afflicts a limb with pain,
other limbs at rest cannot remain,” or so Sa’adi is quoted as saying. 
Ex: people are deprived from education, food, etc.
o	Reduce the gap between wealth and poverty. Alleviate destitution. Destitution rife crime,  affect all Ex: Research that shows link bet indigence and corruption
•	Company should pay for employees to get university degree.
o	Get required knowledge – find better solutions – lead to better productivity, more efficacy, greater profitability, and many other benefits. Ex: research that shows well-educated ppl are more successful
o	Boost their mental and intellectual abilities – devise creative ways – increase speed – reduce cost Ex: I worked as a sideline to make a living. Was not in line of my profession – I could see my colleagues who had been majored in pertinent areas worded much better.
•	People in communities can make decisions that protect and improve the natural
environment. Which one is the most useful?
A. plant trees and create parks
B. persuade local shops to stop providing plastic bags to customers
C. increase access to public transportation to reduce the number of automobiles on
local roads
o	–
o	–
o	Ex: our city is devoid of amusement park. Entice customers to use reusable bags. The paucity of green areas in city.
•	After making a presentation in class, you want to evaluate it. Which of the following do you think would be better for you?
1. watch the recording by yourself
2. invite other attenders to discuss and give opinions
o	Imp to rehearse or practice before make a presentation/ give a lecture / … to be well prepared. 
o	Attenders; resemble real audience – be accustomed to the atmosphere of the lecture – boost your confidence – control your speech, take care of your body language … Ex: I am a good presenter, I always ask my classmates to participate in my training presentation and it substantially helps me 
o	Diff ppl have diff opinions –feed back their comments – size your speech more reasonable – eliminate unimportant and trivial matters – Ex: I attended to my friend’s rehearsal – he devoted half of his speech to the introduction
•	Is it as important for older people to learn and study new things as young people to do
so？
o	Seek the knowledge from the cradle to grave, as the old saying goes. Age is just a number. It seems more rational to keep yourself up-to-date in this fast-paced world. 
o	---
•	Which one do you think is important to long-lasting friendship?
A. help you when you need
B. share same interest and hobby
C. mutual trust
Human beings have perpetually been seeking a way to communicate with others. Friendship actually doesn’t fit into any definition. It’s a relationship that cannot be described with words. friendship is as important to our wellbeing as eating right and exercising. A vexed question that arises here is whether having common interests and hobbies plays a more significant role in friendship or friends solicitousness when they need one another. My impression is that mutual confidence of utmost importance.
o	Honest friends would never talk behind your back – let you diagnose your weaknesses – you will work on them and be a better prsn which is invaluable. Ex: I had this roommate who always tried to criticize me in a friendly way. I learned a lot from eating habits to how manage work-life conflict.
o	Honest friends will never lead you astray – they will never lie to you and will never give you wrong info – you can count on them whenever you run into difficulties- Ex: I was studying for exam, one my classmates who was terribly jealous, came up to me and said, ”have you studied these chapters? The teacher told me that there will be some questions from these chapters.” I spend the rest of the time studying those trivial matters which I later discovered were
•	Are government doing good in educating people to pay attention to the importance
of the food nutrition and healthy eating?
o	Eating impotance ----
o	No; government should pay painstaking attention in young people eating habits, the prevalence of obesity is exceedingly high among teenagers, TV advertisements are the main culprit. Kids today badger their parents to buy them junk foods. Ex: my cousin in only 13 years old and his weight is 130 pounds which is excruciatingly bad for a boy at that age. 
o	Another culprit of obesity among people is social medium. you can hardly scroll through Instagram without passing by a must-try fat-laden and sugar-rich meals. Governments should try to dissuade people from eating unhealthy food. Ex: You might have seen such video clips of Big burgers, French fries, choice succulent steaks, pizzas and so forth.  
•	Speaking courses should be mandatory for students
o	Incongruous courses may waste Ss time. My friend speech was barely comprehensible 
o	Speaking is hard. While speaking you should tread lightly. Helps ss to conquer their stage fright. 
•	190112WR) One can learn about another person from the books and movies that the person likes.
o	---find a suitable sentence for the time you cannot decide
o	The books and movies one like shows their taste. Your taste in choosing books and movies depends on your temperament. Knowing one’s temperament, you can learn about them in an excellent way and find out their idiosyncrasy.  Ex: I do not usually read a lot of books but the ones I like tend to be like serious, scientific books, concerning real issues and describing ppl in a realistic way. I am an engineer, I cannot find any point in those fiction books. 
o	Personality and predisposition of a person is inextricably linked to the books and movies they like. Movies and books at times are for recreation and people may try different types of them. But they would not like all of them. If they like a specific genera, it means that it was in their line of thought or character. Ex: An extensive body of research that examine the link between human characteristics and region they live showed that people of different countries have different tastes in movies. Therefore can say one can learn about a person by watching movies.
•	190126WR ) In order to succeed in study or job, the ability to adjust or adapt to changing conduction or circumstance is more important than having knowledge.
o	Merits and demerits to each one
o	On the one hand, having relevant knowledge, one have the ability to know the tasks the job may entail and how to tackle them. They would be able to make timely decisions. Increase efficacy Ex: I worked at a company as a content provider as a sideline while finishing for my masters. My responsibilities were not in the line of my education, but I saw my colleagues who had studied in pertinent areas worked much better than me.
o	On the other hand, life is chaotic and it is impossible to predict all the circumstances. There might be abrupt changes in the life which one has to be able to adapt to them or devise a new way to surmount the obstacles; otherwise, they might wreak havoc on their lives.  Ex: During the COVID-19 outbreak, a lot of people have been laid off, many other employees have been forced to work outsource. The people who were not familiar with internet, computer and stuff couldn’t survive.
•	Leadership abilities
o	Leader must be able to resolve the conflict among the members of the group. 
o	Leader has to bear in mind that members of the group -------------------. Leader has to bear the responsibility for …- 
•	
 
 
•	Teamwork
o	-> potion work out among members -- dedicate single task – avoid multitasking – not boring, dull, enervating
o	social skills, communication, 
•	pay fee to drive in busy streets
o	reduce # of cars that produce prodigious amounts of GH gases signfcl – not reasonable to pay – encourage public transportation – reduce the pollution 
o	use the revenue -> incentives for green activity, establish recycling companies 
•	secure job low pay or high salary not secur
o	consistent, afford opp to make master plan rather than living in a haphazard way or being in a precarious position, reduce anxiety and facilitate control, life-long desires, 
o	unemployment rate is high – hard to find another job – possible to stay solvent – half a loaf is better than no bread 
•	Stop reading or listening to news
o	news is often about bad events – stressful because sometimes, try as one might, they cannot make any change – makes you tense – affect your life adversely – even may lead to mental disorder – 
o	on the other hand, raise your awareness, dvlp realistic perspective on life and world – make better and timely decisions – tax , ... 
•	company -> better working env or technologies
o	better env -> comfortable – convival and cordial atmos – willing to work – retain their employees , lower turnover - passion  ..
o	more meeting rooms -> more meeting – collective decisions – common goals – passionate – solve individual prblms together – more eager 
•	long assgnmnt for young students 
o	---------
•	people who always criticise are not good teammembers
o	although criticism is a good thing as a fault-finding behavior – eye-opener – hard for evbdy to be told they are wrong – continuing criticsm will lead to conflics 
o	continual criticism impede the way to progress – better to be proactive and try to make change not only disapprove of others
•	digital devices for children
o	affect ppl’s mental health advrsly, this is especially true in respect of children. Appealing and gained massive popularity, spend hours, scenes in games or net. also imp is physical health, prevalent obesity plus spinal discomfort, bad posture, 
o	Stifle their creativity, creativity does not constitute an inherent talent, UI/UX designers , easy to use, crush their eagerness to seek challenges, hinder dvlpmnt of brain 
•	first-year ss lack of study skills
o	--------
o	----------
•	 personal resolution
o	-------
o	-------
•	history courses
o	although history is important – boring – ss dissatisfaction – lose their interest – impinge on their education – may grad later and become employed later
o	take their time – not advantageous – better to learn required knowldg and ess prerequisites – useful for their future life
o	hist repeats itself – raise their awareness of their cultural heritage - learn from history – make better decisions – better society or world – 
•	career prospect or interest 
o	sig fact b4 chsing mjr is interest – hard ok – successful , passion, effort. You will be able to achieve anything providing that you keep plugging away at it. 
o	other factors 
•	know how your donation to a charity is going to be spent
o	no; trust org, manifest rubric, experts know better, not as wasy as you might thing, 
o	live your life and let them do their work, just find a good org, dont interfere, anonymous, 
•	prepare children for school; 
o	communication -> ess skills 
o	self esteem and confidence,  
•	how to know a new city in short time
o	---------
o	-------
•	use elec devices in class
o	no; distraction – cannot focus – reduce performance – class is not useful waste of time








