1)

Subject: Is palm oil production positive or negative.
read:
The production of palm oil has a positive impact and should be expanded.
1. It can help protect forests and requires less land.
2. It can be used to produce environmentally friendly biodiesel.
3. It can reduce the poverty of small-scale farmers.
hearing:
Palm oil production will also have a negative impact and should not be expanded.
1. Although planting can become a forest and requires less land, cutting down other forests also destroys the forest.
2. It can be used to produce biodiesel, but after cutting down other forests, peat needs to be burned. The burning of this thing will produce more carbon dioxide, which is not good for the environment
3. It can reduce the poverty of small-scale farmers, but the small-scale farmers did not control palm oil production for a long time. Later, large-scale production institutions were also interested in palm oil, so small-scale production Farmers will lose control of palm oil production and increase their income very little.



2)

Title: Protection of Endangered Birds Hermit Ibis.
read:
Protecting the endangered bird Hermit Ibis is difficult because:
1. habitat destruction The destruction of the living environment is mostly caused by human occupation.
2. Attacks on young birds and eggs by nearby predators (such as vultures and crows). Eggs and juvenile are vulnerable to the predators, which, however, cannot be killed because they are also important to ecosystem.
3. Protect endangered species. Usually scientists will raise them in captivity and release into the wild, but Hermit Ibis are migratory animals. They learn how and where to migrate from their parents. If they are raised in captivity and put back into nature, they cannot survive. .
hearing:
Problem can be solved
1. Hermit ibis can build nests in many places, artificial habitats, such as the outer walls of buildings. This is not a problem.
2. Although eggs and juvenile are vulnerable, their natural enemies are relatively timid. As long as humans blow away their natural enemies by blowing their whistle before eggs and juvenile reach adulthood, Hermit Ibis will have no problem living in adulthood.
3. Humans can also teach young hermit ibis how to migrate. For example, the pilot takes the young hermit ibis and flies along with them on the migration route. They can also learn how to migrate. After being released back to nature, they will not survive. any question.



3) 170325CN

Topic: Three theories about wheat.
read:
1. Dating Error
Because of the problem of land subsidence, the proof of the soil layer in time is inaccurate.
2. Trade
Wheat is not a local crop, but is traded from other places to Britain.
3. British Farmers
At that time, hunting was still the main focus in Britain, but some farmers had already appeared, but there was no such thing as a large fence.
hearing:
1. This situation is rare, and because the soil in the UK is very dense, this transportation is unlikely to happen, and there are no other plants in the wheat stratum, so transportation does not exist.
2. At that time, only southern Europe had wheat. In that era, long-distance trade was very difficult, so it was impossible.
3. Wheat has a reproduction process, so pollen will definitely be produced, but only pollen from other plants in the same period was found, but there is no pollen from wheat, so it does not exist.

4) 161029
Topic: Three ways to save beluga whales.
Read: There are measures to save belugas (white whale)
1. Improve the law and add regulations
2. Ways of releasing after breeding
3. Don't take young belugas away
hearing:
Listening: These measures are useless.
1. Some people ignore laws and regulations
2. Not a long-term solution, and the environment will change
3. Unless there are dams, it is difficult to do


5) 161217CN
Topic: Building solar roads.
read:
Build solar roads by paving glass, glass can absorb the sun’ s energy and translate into electricity.
Attitude: Oppose
1. It is not a logical place. The roads are flat, not tilted.
2. Glass are not safe, especially in wet or icy condition
3. Will be very expensive.
hearing:
Attitude: agree
1. It will be more efficient. The solar panel will produce more energy. It will reflect the sun in cloudy days not just in one direction but in many different directions.
2. A new kind of glass will solve the problem. The engineers have already researched for it, it will also useful in wet days.
3. The solar roads will produce more power which can be sold to other counties; its revenue can be the cost.
